and that's one of the many reasons they
call the Indianapolis 500 the greatest
spectacle in racing this is a 1968 Lotus
turbine car owned by Bruce Lin's Meyer
from Danville Illinois was national
Indiana's day after the London Lotus one
day the race in 1965 they came back with
conventional cars Andy Granatelli in
1967 came to the speedway with a turbine
powered car gas turbine powered car and
Parnelli Jones driving the car almost
won the race the car broke very near the
in the last few laps of the race a
bearing failed of like a ten dollar
bearing and it cost him the race when I
came back in Andy Granatelli came back
the next year he hooked up with Colin
Chapman
and Lotus and they built these cars and
they're quite wonderful they're they're
four-wheel drive their rear engine this
is where the the turbine is back here
and very hot this is where the exhaust
comes out this was in an era before
there were wings on cars so the whole
cars is very wedge-shaped to give you
downforce and they were very fast and
they had the race in hand again Joe
Leonard was driving this very car and
the shaft that that drove the fuel pump
failed at lap 193 out of 200 and the car
failed and Bobby unser went on to win
the race they tried to begins with
turbine cars the next couple of years
and what happened is the
the race officials didn't really like
these turbine cars and they kept
changing the rules to make it harder and
harder on them and eventually they put
so many restrictions on the turbines
that they were no longer competitive and
so that wonderful era is over but we're
delighted that some of them survived and
that folks like Bruce have brought this
one back to life this is an example of
what can inspire people you never know
what he's going to get a kid excited and
when he was a young man or young boy
Bruce Lin's Myers saw this car and got
excited by it and it had a profound
effect on his life and if he doesn't
mind then ask him to talk about that
movie yeah I had reports me
attending the 1967-68 Indy 500 when the
turbine cars made a strong presence and
high-school sophomore they greatly
influenced my life by getting the
curious about turbine engines and and
just what they were all about so in
later years I maintained that curiosity
and eventually in my adult life I
started my own business and still had
that interest and so there's there's a
lot of young people around here seeing a
whole bunch of different vehicles and
who knows what kind of inspiration is
gonna come out of that and how they may
translate that into a career later in
life so Bruce is gonna fire it up now